IREADME — K-MEANS ALGORITHM
COSC150 Project 1
Author: Leslie Kim
NetID: LK584

CONTENTS:
This directory contains an executable jar file, a zip file, two sample data
files and README file.
The jar file is an executable file to run the KMeans Algorithm.
The zip file contains all java and class files for each class for the Means
Algorithm, a JUnit test for the project and a sample data file.
Data1.txt is a sample data file of ordered pairs.
Data2.txt is a sample data file of ordered triplets.

DESCRIPTION:
The main is run in the KMeansClustering class. It creates an object that
runs the K-Means Clustering algorithm. To run the program, one or three
command line arguments should be passed in. The first command line argument
is a filename that contains rectangular coordinates as data points. The
file should be in the same directory as the Project files. (Optional: The
second and third command line arguments are the number of Clusters (K) and
iterations the algorithm will have and run. If these arguments are not
entered, by default, there will be K = 3 Clusters and 5 iterations.)
i.e. java -jar LK584.jar Data1.txt - This will use Data1.txt as the data file
                                     and set K = 3 and run 5 iterations.
i.e. java -jar LK584.jar Data1.txt 6 3 - This will use Data1.txt as the data
					 file and set K = 6 and run 3
					 iterations.
NOTE: Data1.txt should be the full pathname of the textile.

Each java file contains a detailed description of the class and its
constructor(s) and methods.

The program reads in a file of rectangular coordinates as Point objects
and stores them in a PointList object. K Points are selected at random and
a Cluster object is instantiated with each random Point as it's centroid.
Each Point from the file is assigned to a Cluster by calculating the distance
from each centroid and assigning it to the Cluster with the closest centroid.
For each Cluster, the intra-cluster distance is calculated between all sets of
two Points. The largest distance measures the quality of that particular 
Cluster and is assigned to the maxIntraDistance of that Cluster. The
overallMaxIntraDistance is used to assess the quality of the entire algorithm
by taking the largest maxIntraDistance among all Clusters. The mean of each
Cluster is calculated and Clusters are created with the new centroids. Each
Point is then re-assigned to the Cluster with the closest centroid. This
process repeats for the number of iterations specified or until convergence
occurs (an iteration produces the same Clusters as the previous iteration).

EXTRA CREDIT:
1) If convergence occurs, program automatically ends and outputs diagnostics.
2) Algorithm should run for both ordered pairs and ordered triplets. All data
   points in a file must be the same type of Point (either an order pair or
   ordered triplet).